infrastructure/checkers: Fill contents (#59)
open-education-hub/methodology: chapters/infrastructure/checkers/reading/read.md

# Validators and Checkers

> One of the greatest challenges of educators is the evaluation of learners submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the greatest challenges of educators is the evaluation of learners' submissions.
```

`vmchecker` is **easy to use and setup** by both infrastructure managers, educators and learners.
This can be done through automation, providing setup scripts to allow for automatic setup.
Containers are used in modern software development to use a one button solution for software deployment.
We aim to use containers to allow infrastructure administrators to start the infrastructure with needing a special environment.
Containers also allow local checking using scripts to automate the setup.

As resource usage increases, and demand is increased, `vmchecker` is able to **scale the amount of submissions that it checks in parallel**.
A parallel approach means learners don't have to wait in long queues for assignment checking.

`vmchecker` is **open source software** and is compatible with the [Open Educational Resources requirements](https://oercommons.org/).
Using open source solutions allows us to quickly discover issues and make updates.

Many education institutions use e-learning platforms to manage classrooms.
These tools allow users to upload materials, evaluate learners, and grade assignments using a single application.

> `vmchecker` is integrated with existing educational platforms (such as Moodle) to it more appealing to integrate for institutions that already rely on these systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`vmchecker` is integrated with existing educational platforms (such as Moodle).
This makes it more appealing to institutions that already rely on these systems.
```

This makes it easier for learners and educators to debug faulty code together.
Because the API is open, the operation of granting educators access can be automated using scripts.

## User Scenarios

`vmchecker` has been built with scenarios for the user roles:

* Infrastructure managers handle the `vmchecker` installation and ensure a service level agreement, especially during high load situations, such as submission deadlines.
* Educators configure repositories for submissions, and integrate them with `vmchecker`.
* Learners make use of the submission repositories and the `vmchecker` installation to validate submissions and receive grading.

Each role interacts with `vmchecker` through a user-friendly interface.
This is the motivation for using GitLab that already provides the interface adapted for `vmchecker` scenarios.

## Infrastructure Manager

The infrastructure manager first needs to set up the `vmchecker` frontend and middleware.
The [`vmchecker` Moodle plugin](https://github.com/open-education-hub/vmchecker-next-ui) is used as a frontend that can be copied and installed on the Moodle instance.

> The middleware is to be set up with all its required services using the Docker containers provided in the [`vmchecke` repository](https://github.com/open-education-hub/vmchecker-next).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The middleware is to be set up with all its required services using the Docker containers provided in the [`vmchecker` repository](https://github.com/open-education-hub/vmchecker-next).
```

It does not require any specific features that cannot be accessed by regular users using the GitLab REST API.
An institution may want to use their own GitLab instance in order to manage per user limits, or to give users access to more resources, and connect to institutional user management.

Detailed instructions for infrastructure managers are part of the [official `vmchecker` Moodle Admin Handbook](https://github.com/open-education-hub/vmchecker-next/wiki/Moodle-Admin-Handbook).

## Educator

Educators need only interact with the frontend and GitLab to create a submission repository.
The teacher must create a repository based on [the template provided by the `vmchecker` team](https://github.com/open-education-hub/vmchecker-next-assignment).
The cloned Git repository will contain a GitLab CI/CD workflow file which defines the container which will run the submission and the script to run the assignment.
The assignment repository must also contain a `src/` directory, which defines the directory in which students will write code.
The Git repository must be private, otherwise students would be able to view the code amongst themselves.

> If using Moodle, educator must create an `Assignment` instance and a `vmchecker` assignment block, which will attach to the `vmchecker` backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Moodle, the educator must create an `Assignment` instance and a `vmchecker` assignment block, which will attach to the `vmchecker` backend.
```

To mitigate this, we recommend teachers setup the checking infrastructure in `vmchecker` so that the scripts run inside of a container.
The `vmchecker` team provides a minimal template that can be expanded based on individual class needs.

The container infrastructure presents an easier approach than the one seen in current solutions, which either require an internet connection for remote checking, or a virtual machine, which uses more resources.
Using containers allows for easier patches to the environment, for example installing a new library, because the changes will be sent incrementally, the student not needing to download a whole new image.

## Example `vmchecker` Deployments

`vmchecker` has been used extensively for the Operating Systems class at the [National University of Science and Technology POLITEHNICA of Bucharest (UNSTPB)](https://upb.ro/), using the contents of [the `operating-systems` repository](https://github.com/open-education-hub/operating-systems).
The repositories used for the five assignments, plus a template repository, plus a tutorial assignment can be used as examples of repositories for `vmchecker` deployment:

> - [`Assignment: Base`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-base)

Reviewer: This link returns a 404.

- [`Assignment: Tutorial`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-tutorial)
- [`Assignment: Mini Libc`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-mini-libc)
- [`Assignment: Memory Allocator`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-memory-allocator)
- [`Assignment: Parallel Graph`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-parallel-graph)
- [`Assignment: Mini Shell`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-mini-shell)

> - [`Assignment: Async Web Server`](https://gitlab.cs.pub.ro/operating-systems/assignment-async-web-server)

Reviewer: I think these links are pretty pointless overall. They are inaccessible without logging in using the UPB credentials, so only people from UPB will be able to access them.
